---
layout: post
title:  "Mountains and I"
author: Juhi
categories: [ Jekyll, tutorial ]
image: assets/images/eberhard-grossgasteiger-eZF9nZKBev8-unsplash.jpg
---


In October last year, I took a trip that changed me. Now I’m not one of those people who have life changing events every two-three months, but this one was special. Because that trip changed the way I think about what matters in life, what is important in my life.
Madam Toastmaster, fellow toastmasters and guests, thank you so much for joining us today. I’m here to ask you one question, and tell you my experience in answering that question: “What is your mountain?”
In fall last year, I hiked Mt. Whitney, which is the tallest mountain in the lower 48 states. We summited Mt. Whitney in a day, gaining over 6800’, that is more than 1 vertical mile, walking over 26 miles. 16 hours, 60,000 steps is what it took me to do that. What that mountain gave back to me is something I cannot quantify.

I’ve never been a very active person in my life. I was of the opinion that you are born with a finite number of heartbeats, and I didn’t want to waste mine on exercise. For me, no pain, no gain was not a motto. It was a multiple choice question and I always picked No Pain
But as events turned out, I realized that there is more to California than the busy cities and was starting to get more outdoorsy and this trip happened.
We hit the trailhead at around 2am. I thought about what I usually do at 2am, my favorite activity of all time, sleeping comfortably, snuggled in my warm comforter. And here I was , in near freezing temperature, wearing three jackets and two pants, hiking poles in hand. Headlamp strapped to my forehead.
Fortunately, for us, it was a full moon night. And you don’t really the beauty of the full moon and starry night unless you are in a place with no city lights, nothing. And so in the middle of nowhere, the moon was shining in all its glory, and were in a valley with mountains surrounding us entirely - like you turn around and you see mountains all around you. As soon as we went above treeline, you could start seeing the peaks, which in the absence of any vegetation, the granite mountains were bathing in the moonlight. And as we looked back, we could see a trail of headlamps in groups. moving around, trying to make their way. Taking in that scene makes you realize that we are all just a bunch of tiny, mortal human beings trying to get atop a mountain that has been there way longer than any of us, and will be there, way after any of us.
As the sun began to rise we found ourselves front and center for one of the most spectacular sunrises I have ever seen. This energized me like no coffee ever has. I've seen sunrises over mountain peaks from far below but I've never been in alpenglow before.
And all of us spent around 30 minutes just taking it all in. In front of us, was the moon, almost about to set, as if it didn't want to say goodbye. And towards our back, there was the sun just getting out of bed. And the stars that covered the sky in between was just what we needed to hold this image forever.
Getting to the top oof Sierra Nevadas was like being on top of a cathedral. This is my temple. This is my religion.
And for me, being up on the mountains - hiking, snowshoeing, or camping are the things I lose myself if. We find ourselves there, too.. You have to find that place that brings out the human in you. the soul in you. the love in you.

> Because in the end, you won’t remember the time you spent working in the office or mowing your lawn. Climb that goddamn mountain.

So, what is your mountain?

